# Ryan Lee Sipes

## Mission

To work on amazing open source projects that empower people by promoting privacy, productivity, and freedom.

## Experience

I've founded a successful startup, built strong communities, and am helping lead a project serving ~20,000,000 monthly users.

### Mozilla Thunderbird _2017–present_

#### Community and Business Development Manager, Treasurer on Thunderbird Council

##### Achievements:

- Have helped revitalize Thunderbird's image, reversing the perception that the project was dead.
- Increased donations to the project by nearly 4x (from ~500k/yr to >$2M/yr) by analyzing how we engaged with donors and adjusting strategy accordingly.
- Created and now maintain the [Thunderbird Developer Documentation](https://developer.thunderbird.net).
- Lead the creation of the product vision for 2019 (Thunderbird 76).
- Developed mutually beneficial partnerships with organizations to further Thunderbird's mission and enhance the product.

### System76 _2016–2017_

#### Community Manager

##### Achievements:

- Represented the company in media appearances, engaged with podcasters and journalists as an official spokesperson.
- Attend many open source and tech conferences to talk about our products and initiatives with the community - and to engage with partners.
- Managed relationships with many members of the press and influencers, helped create and distribute press releases.
- Engaged with community and companies around open source projects, helped direct potential contributors and promoted the initiatives.
- Engaged with the entire team to advise on marketing, product, and partnership strategy.

### Mycroft AI _2015-2016_

#### Co-Founder & CTO

##### Achievements:

- Oversaw all key technical hires and coordinated the development effot. Played key role in day-to-day operations and inter-team communication.
- Work with CEO to develop much of the company's strategy.
- Helped lead a successful crowdfunding effort on Kickstarter and Indiegogo with $170,000 raised in pre-orders to date.
- Evangelized for Mycroft, becoming the public face for the company. Grew the community from nonexistant to a large and vibrant one.
- Lead and developed the open source community and the many projects generated by Mycroft - many of which are now in use by other companies.
